My first web app. A tool for allowing groups of people to easily purchase part of a whole cow, pig, lamb, or goat, greatly simplifying the process of purchasing any quantity of meat directly from a farmer.

An attempt to merge the monetary and transparency benefits of direct-from-farm CSA meat purchasing with the ease and choice of retail, [MeatUp](https://meatup.in), allows users to purchase specific cuts -- prepared however desired -- from specific animals. It then handles all the back end of the purchasing process, contacting farmers and butchers and coordinating pricing and weight calculations in an attempt to sell off the whole animal in a quick and simple online 'auction'.

I began working on MeatUp during [Bloc](/resume#bloc), and tackled its wide range of coding difficulties as the curriculum progressed. The site involves five user roles -- purchaser, admin, host, butcher, and rancher -- each with separate permissions to separate data and sub-pages. It requires a self-updating mechanism (the real proportions of each animal affect future calculations) for calculating animal cuts based on size and breed, which I had to create from available data and vary by animal type and weight. It has a custom e-commerce solution, built using Javascript and Rails and dependent on four interacting 'models' representing the animal data. It has integrated email, purchase timers, blog, and more, all wrapped into a custom design scheme.

The site was a difficult and exciting first project, one which I feel represents not only my abilities but my excitement about tackling new and difficult problems and turning them into elegant solutions.